Newsletters: add 176 (2021-11-24) (#689)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2021-11-24-newsletter.md

  [thread][jager params] on the Lightning-Dev mailing list about how to
  best allow users to choose between paying more fees for faster
  payments or waiting longer to save money.  One of the challenges
  discussed in the thread is how to relate user preferences that exist
  on a single continuum to the discrete and multi-factor routes being
  returned by a pathfinding algorithm.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [Why is it important that nonces when signing not be related?]({{bse}}110811)
  Pieter Wuille provides mathematical breakdowns for how private key information
  can be leaked when signing twice with the same public key using: the same nonces,

>   nonces with known offsets, and nonces with known factors.

Reviewer: I think the final section (**Arbitrary known relation between the nonces**) is also interesting, particularly the conclusion: "But in between those two, there is a huge gap of techniques which are neither known to be broken, nor proven secure. Many of them might well be secure, but we don't know." Perhaps something summarising that could be included?

Reviewer 2: @jnewbery I pushed an addition for this, but welcome your feedback

- [How could a 2 byte witness program make sense?]({{bse}}110660)
  Discussing [BIP141][]'s requirement that a witness program be 2-40 bytes,
  Kalle Rosenbaum brainstorms examples of potential use cases for a 2 byte
  witness program size.

- [What is the xpriv/xpub type for P2TR?]({{bse}}110733)
  Andrew Chow notes that as more diverse and complicated scripts become more
  widely used and for separation of concern reasons, there is no taproot
  equivalent for xpub/ypub/zpub. He recommends to "use xpriv/xpub along with
  some extra information indicating that the script to create is Taproot, (e.g.

>   with a tr() descriptor)".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with a `tr()` descriptor)".
```

Reviewer 2: Changed.

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #176'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2021/11/24/
name: 2021-11-24-newsletter
slug: 2021-11-24-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter links to a discussion about how to allow LN users

> to choose between higher fees and higher payment reliability and

Reviewer: That doesn't quite work, because the "includes" next applies to both "our regular...", "announcements..." and "summaries...".

Perhaps just split into a new sentence:

"...choose between higher fees and higher payment reliability. Also included are ..."

includes our regular sections with popular questions and answers from

> the Bitcoin StackExchange, announcements of new releases and release

Reviewer 3: Below, Stack Exchange is written as two words, here it is a single word. "Stack Exchange" as two words is also the title given by the company that is running the network.

```suggestion
the Bitcoin Stack Exchange, announcements of new releases and release
```

Reviewer 3: From a cursory search, we have used both in the past. I would be happy to volunteer to harmonize the spelling across all of our posts if such a PR were welcome.

Author: We previously agreed on two words going forward, this was just a typo by me.  I don't personally care about changing old posts but I also don't have an objection to it if you want to put in the work.

Reviewer 3: Ah okay, I wasn't sure what we had ended up deciding last time. :+1:

Reviewer 3: It was luckily easy: https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/pull/690

Reviewer 2: Thanks @Xekyo !
